src/content/posts/project-idea-xivat-global-notif-marks.mdx, before:

---
title: "Xivat: Global notification marks"
date: 2026-01-20
excerpt: An anonymous pin global mark system for the curious and the people in need.
draft: false
tags: [project]
---

import Notification from "../../components/Notification.vue";

The app could be named Xivat. It means *snitch* in catalan, still not sure about it.

## The idea

1. You create some type of identificator that its anoymous for everyone
   1. Internally each phone should be identified
2. You give access to location and maybe other stuff
3. The app will ask for what is happening where you are now?
   1. This is part of the initial tutorial
4. You can add a question or create a snitch
   1. Questions are answered by snitch, and those are "planted" in any area of the map
   2. Snitch can answer questions or leave answers in the area
5. Each question/answer can contain a photo and the text
6. There should be a trust system for all the users, questions can be downvoted
   of course and there should be moderators.

## How it works

The main idea is that you activate the app and if you go around once in a while
it gets some information on the map, or if you want to keep it off it will
search for them when opening it.

Then if you are on the map and you opened, you can configure in what radious you
want to answer, some questions will be urgent or need updated info. Other can be
static and grow for some time.

Once the question is marked as answered by the owner it wille be archived, or
deleted if the oner put it as auto destructive.

## Notifications by area

Also people could mark parts of the map where they want to get notification
from, for example:

> Enable 10km radious in location X, only urgent marks

And when any new mark appears that is urgent in that radious it will get a notification.
We could have a way of knowing when the mark is already trusted or has some answers so the user does not get an empty notification if it does not want to.

Some scenarios where this can be useful:

### 1. You are waiting for a package in the Correos station

You get the line ticket and it says that the current number is 230 and you are
the 265, that is 35 more people in front of you!

You can leave a "question" in the map and go for a walk:
> Q: "Could anyone tell me the current number in the line?"

This will be marked on the map, as a question thread where any user can answer:
You get some live updates on you phone:

<Notification author="John" replies={2} time="14:30">
  232
</Notification>

Then you forget to check for a while and get another one:

<Notification author="Cathy" type="urgent" replies={12} time="14:45">
  260, hurry!
</Notification>

You come back on time and you got you package! There will be cases where some
app is already implemented for this, but for the cases that there is not this is
really useful.

### 2. You see some sidewalk blocked in you neighbourd

You add a picture with a comment in that location in the map so anyone can see,
with the tag of "Construction". It can accept answers.

Someone then can pass the next day and see that the construction is over, and
add an answer.

> Q: "Construction is done, finally!"

The answer has a pic of the finished construction and some user can verify the
answer if they are on the location or can justify being there recently.

### 3. You are new on the neighborhood and got robed in a street

Also one of the owners of the shop in the street tells you that its always a
problem in this street for ever.

You don't want this to happen to anyone else, so you create a "Wisdom pin" in
the map!

Wisdom Pin: "Be carful with this street, I got robed yesterday and the locals say that this happens all the time!"

Then the users can validate how real its this wisom pin, if its still useful
after some time or this is already fixed.

This is the main idea for now, also I think it would be really useful to have a
good search engine for the app so anyone can try to search for specific words
and filter by location, tags etc.

Commit message:

add more info to xivat post

src/content/posts/project-idea-xivat-global-notif-marks.mdx, after:

---
title: "Xivat: Global notification marks"
date: 2026-01-20
excerpt: An anonymous pin global mark system for the curious and the people in need.
draft: false
tags: [project]
---

import Notification from "../../components/Notification.vue";

The app could be named Xivat. It means *snitch* in catalan, still not sure about it.

## The idea

1. You create some type of identificator that its anoymous for everyone
   1. Internally each phone should be identified
2. You give access to location and maybe other stuff
3. The app will ask for what is happening where you are now?
   1. This is part of the initial tutorial
4. You can add a question or create a snitch
   1. Questions are answered by snitch, and those are "planted" in any area of the map
   2. Snitch can answer questions or leave answers in the area
5. Each question/answer can contain a photo and the text
6. There should be a trust system for all the users, questions can be downvoted
   of course and there should be moderators.

## How it works

The main idea is that you activate the app and if you go around once in a while
it gets some information on the map, or if you want to keep it off it will
search for them when opening it.

Then if you are on the map and you opened, you can configure in what radious you
want to answer, some questions will be urgent or need updated info. Other can be
static and grow for some time.

Once the question is marked as answered by the owner it wille be archived, or
deleted if the oner put it as auto destructive.

Important to note that this app will not be a socia network, all accounts will
be anoymous, to the users, Internally we have to identify all devices in case of report.

The main idea is that the data will be the focus of the app, not the accounts/profiles
by doing this we will break the "bussiness" part of the internet that now reings 
and created so many issues. 

If there is no account to follow, the importance is on the data, and the users will
not post what makes they have more subscribers, but what is interesting, because 
they want to share something interesting.

You can subscribe to the tags of the pins, or filter by context like pins created
in the last 12h that are urgent. Also you can subscribe to a location, an area.

## Notifications by area

Also people could mark parts of the map where they want to get notification
from, for example:

> Enable 10km radious in location X, only urgent marks

And when any new mark appears that is urgent in that radious it will get a notification.
We could have a way of knowing when the mark is already trusted or has some answers so the user does not get an empty notification if it does not want to.

Some scenarios where this can be useful:

### 1. You are waiting for a package in the Correos station

You get the line ticket and it says that the current number is 230 and you are
the 265, that is 35 more people in front of you!

You can leave a "question" in the map and go for a walk:
> Q: "Could anyone tell me the current number in the line?"

This will be marked on the map, as a question thread where any user can answer:
You get some live updates on you phone:

<Notification author="John" replies={2} time="14:30">
  232
</Notification>

Then you forget to check for a while and get another one:

<Notification author="Cathy" type="urgent" replies={12} time="14:45">
  260, hurry!
</Notification>

You come back on time and you got you package! There will be cases where some
app is already implemented for this, but for the cases that there is not this is
really useful.

### 2. You see some sidewalk blocked in you neighbourd

You add a picture with a comment in that location in the map so anyone can see,
with the tag of "Construction". It can accept answers.

Someone then can pass the next day and see that the construction is over, and
add an answer.

> Q: "Construction is done, finally!"

The answer has a pic of the finished construction and some user can verify the
answer if they are on the location or can justify being there recently.

### 3. You are new on the neighborhood and got robed in a street

Also one of the owners of the shop in the street tells you that its always a
problem in this street for ever.

You don't want this to happen to anyone else, so you create a "Wisdom pin" in
the map!

Wisdom Pin: "Be carful with this street, I got robed yesterday and the locals say that this happens all the time!"

Then the users can validate how real its this wisom pin, if its still useful
after some time or this is already fixed.

This is the main idea for now, also I think it would be really useful to have a
good search engine for the app so anyone can try to search for specific words
and filter by location, tags etc.
